# Visualization-of-Sorting-Algorithms-using-PyOpenGL
This group project is based on various sorting algorithms like bubble sort, selection sort, insertion sort, merge sort etc. The program takes in an input string from the user where the user selects a sorting algorithm to visualize. The algorithms work on 15 different numbers which have been pre-defined in an array. In response to the input, the python program uses OpenGL to visualize the whole swapping process of the selected sorting algorithm of the numbers one by one. All characters, numbers and shapes have been made using Mid-point circle and line algorithms. In the visualizer, we can see bars set for each number. Bars have been made using Mid-point line algorithm. Moreover, the bars have been filled with lots of extra lines that makes it look like it’s been made using GL_QUADS or other library functions. The height of the bar is based on how large/small the number actually is which helps at providing a better visualization of the user. Lastly, there’s a rotating circle/logo that enhances the looks of the whole program. All movements like the swapping of bars, the rotation and change in size of the circles have been done using manual transformation techniques/calculations like rotation, scaling and translating. Basically the whole visualization is done by manually manipulating pixels. The program is to be run from the main.py file. Sample outputs have been attached. You will need OpenGL to be installed in order to run this program.
